---

date: "2024-06-29-0720"

title: Moving to SL

---



DS: so yes the last bit of the puzzle last night was getting into SL



DS: i can do that i think  if you want to try



JR: sure let's, i want to see what this new texture i made looks like

DS: yes  ok open the blend file



JR: yes i am in the shading layout

DS: ok

JR: i should think one could "just" wire the normals to some kind of output thing

DS: on the menu at top select World  yes thats what we will do



JR: World??

JR: in blender?

DS:



[image](https://gyazo.com/351a75f6686c1e7c8f5a7b3db0c3d408)



DS: top left of node window  there is Object, world, linestyle



DS: select world

JR: yes found it

DS: we are going to set up a simple backgrond illumination

JR: hm ok

DS: you should have two of these



[image](https://gyazo.com/ce1f44fae266618da529ce2c55682914)



JR: i have nothing

DS: mm

DS:



[image](https://gyazo.com/f62622f47df3c4f86eb09303f40553f1)



JR: they were hiding. there must be some keystroke to bring it into view. i have two things not three

DS: yes  we need to add the HUe/stat its a colour node



JR: ok added and hooked up

DS: wire it like this



[image](https://gyazo.com/b52bc36428e73deb7560e913aeaaf933)



DS: ok  so go back to object veiw



DS: on the node window

JR: yes

DS: we are going to add two image textures as output

JR: ok

DS:



[image](https://gyazo.com/1f7625dd02e0d06623e1eac2b76b7578)



DS: create two textures as 1k x 1k and name then texture and bump  using new on the selector



JR: whoa

DS: they dont connect to anything

JR: wait for yes please

JR: how did you name them

DS: dooulbe clicked on the untitled name

JR: the nodes

DS: yes

JR: where is this untitled name of which you speak

DS: ok let me screeshot it  when you click new on the node it looks like this





[image](https://gyazo.com/dd66730349d9162b4fa0b71b835bcd06)



JR: yeah. alpha or no alpha?

DS: none

JR: yours is checked

DS: doesnt really matter

JR: should color space be sRGB or none?

DS: may need to set alpha to none in SL if you do  sRGB i think



JR: hm ok i guess i have the two things there then

DS: ok  so in the top right menu theres a drop down beside the last circle called "shading

"

JR: yes

DS: select scene world

JR: yes

JR: new view

DS: so then the background is white



[image](https://gyazo.com/f28ca8510c1055484452c4d894d1cf40)



JR: yes whiteish

DS: yes  ok



JR: hue 1.8 i suppose, whatever that is

DS: yes  its really just a white light that illuminates from all sides



JR: yes

DS: the next thing if find the renedr tab

JR: the one with cycles / eveee

DS: and open it  yes



JR: ok yes

DS: make sure you are in cycles

JR: yes

DS: i use the GPU but you can use CPU too

JR: yes they cannot use my GPU they are too stupid

DS: so CPU

JR: yes

DS: ok  now we are going to bake the colour texture fist



DS: first

JR: ok

DS: select the cube and also select the texture output node

DS:



[image](https://gyazo.com/7eec39f602070180808f299dcd88af10)



JR: ok i guess

DS: you need both or it will error and say not selected

JR: yes

Eye of Odin HUD to wear: + Helen Haines (HelenHaines)  [3]

DS: ok in the render tab open bake



[image](https://gyazo.com/a500f569189d9a4063739e713ba5f1d5)



DS: and set combined

Eye of Odin HUD to wear: - Helen Haines (HelenHaines)  [2]

JR: yes

DS: now hit bake  your fans will run



DS: as it renders the texture for the object

JR: i have no fans. done

DS: ok

JR: and it appeared on the left

DS:



[image](https://gyazo.com/27a3b03532a9b46720377b39b43c353b)



DS: yes  looks like that

?

JR: yes

DS: greate

JR: looks okish

DS: -e  yes should see the scratches etc



JR: has all the shapes on it

JR: yes

DS: yes

JR: just drawn on of course

DS: ok

JR: i imagine i want to save this somehow?

DS: yes  hambuger image/save as



DS: i usually use TGA  but PNG or Jpg is ok



JR: used PNG. done

DS: now select the lower output node



[image](https://gyazo.com/7ab851dd1e8096242a2c0280e478092b)



DS: the bump

JR: yes

DS: and select Normal in the bake window

DS:



[image](https://gyazo.com/02a0a3c1534ffc4656f656eca13c0983)



JR: ok

DS: hit bake  should get this



DS:



[image](https://gyazo.com/b0d197f8c451ec0c0e7cdc59778fabde)



JR: yes. save that?

DS: yes  so the last thing we need is to export the cube



DS: as a DAe

JR: hm ok

DS: because we modified the cube with a different UV  we need to use that cube



JR: the unwrap?

DS: not a standard  yes



JR: so now i just build it?

DS: we want the cubes mesh with the unwraps we made

JR: so upload all three and apply?

DS: just upload the mesh as a collada  and bring into SL



DS: 2m cube

DS: :)

JR: f'g 2 meter cubes

DS: so now just put the texture and bump into the cube

JR: don't i have to upload them first?

DS: so youll need to bring them in  yes



JR: ok got em

DS: so we can do it as none PCR first  load the texture and bumpiness



JR: ?

DS: edit cube  tesxture



JR: in the edit ok

JR: not PBR?

JR: BlinnPhong?

DS: yes  we can then make a PBR too



DS: same files

JR: so diffuse gets the regular texture?

DS: yes

JR: hm drag works that's nice

DS: then bump into bumpiness  mm



JR: ok so that worked as expected

JR: looks ok to you?

DS: yes  i gave it a little shinyness



DS:



[image](https://gyazo.com/0c6ed5dadf6234309a23bed0193f94be)



JR: interesting fact: the numbers there are the S values on the gray scale i drew with

DS: then the embosing stands out

JR: seem to have no effect on the depth

DS: no  that seems to have worked fine



JR: also those flat panels on the one side with the rivet things?

JR: those were gradients. i was kind of expecting a wedge shape but got that

DS: ok

JR: the other stuff worked nicely tho

DS: yes  so now you can make a PBR material



DS: using the two textures  and copy that cube and aplly it



JR: i'm not clear where the textures go in PBR

DS: ns told us  one sec



JR: it is showing me 5 squares

DS: ok i get 4?  texture goes in base color



DS: bump goes in normal

JR: i tried dragging texture into base color and nothing happened

DS: and a blank texture in Metalic  have you created a new material

?

JR: only if someone told me to

DS: DS: so now you can make a PBR material

 DS: using the two textures

DS: so material folder

JR: oh that

DS: make new materail  create new



JR: and drag those guys in or ?

DS: hees one i made for leather



[image](https://gyazo.com/dd7739e9fe54e89ea0e93d2a77009b07)



DS: base colour is the texture, normal is the bump  metalic just create a blank texture



JR: ok i think i did it

DS: emmisive leave

JR: didn't change when i set blank on metallic

DS: so its metal so set to 1.000 in metalic

JR: probably ok

DS: and rougness 0.3  then save



JR: yes

JR: now i can just slam that onto the white cube?

DS: then drag it to a face  bosh



JR: i love that dent

DS: hehe

JR: not sure how i did that

DS: i think that works :)

JR: yes, thank you

DS: far better than the other cube

JR: i almost know how to do it

JR: yes it is, even in my weak sauce viewer

Eye of Odin HUD to wear: + dullahan·host.exe (BonnieBelle94)  [3]

Eye of Odin HUD to wear: - dullahan·host.exe (BonnieBelle94)  [2]

DS: now you can get more complex with the nodes like adding in a logo onto the texture as a separate image then baking all together

JR: yes clearly one can stack them sim to the two we have

DS: yes  now NS only has one output



JR: now the limits are back to my inherently weak artistic ability :)

DS: but i prefer making the outputs into separate images so they dont overwrite  but you can bake all and save then bake normal then save



JR: oh somehow she baked out just one file?

DS: yes

JR: oh you mean she till saved two but didn't make a new image

JR: still*

DS: i just discovered that way this afternoon  thats right



JR: baked to X saved X backed normal to X saved again

JR: we baked to X and Y

JR: this is better IMO

DS: this way it will prompt you to save both if you exit  yes



DS: its simpler for my brain

DS: :)

JR: yes thanks, i nearly know how to do it

DS: yes

DS: :)  its very powerful isnt it



JR: it is. and it's kind of like assembler or something. no way to just do what you want, you build it up out of 19 tiny unit operations

DS: yes

JR: i suppose, however, one could build an add-on

DS: but then you can save node trees  of combine into a black box



JR: yes i suppose you can and then bring them in and edit

JR: yes interesting idea

DS: yes  NS made me a node tree for shiny metal and i just cut and pasted that for all the garrat



JR: i'll brb, short break

DS: ok inn loo  ill



JR: back

DS: wb

JR: t

DS: i just added this



[image](https://gyazo.com/f52e0291ea7f8c3f029bb7cbfb67f0b7)



DS:



[image](https://gyazo.com/6f5dfc1cd5997d2d6e192ecc04b85164 gives a mix)



JR: can't really read the gyazo but ok

DS: added in the logos

JR: yes

DS: so there are other tricks NS uses  like adding a bevel to edges



JR: with texture?

DS: no she calculates it in nodes

JR: in the model side

DS: and mixes it into the normals  yes



JR: hm, no not if she's mixing it. i guess i'd have to see the network

DS: yes  the nextwork is using the mesh to determine the edges neading to bevel



DS: needing  is nice for stuff like the crankshafts



JR: be nice to have a library of networks

DS: yes

JR: i just ate a piece of leftover prime rib and think i may regret it

DS: aww

JR: probably won't kill me but fridge isn't as cold as it might be

DS: no

JR: oh if i don't show up tuesday i'm probably dealing with installers. no telling what time they'll come.

DS: so when is new fridge coming?  yes



DS: a week on tuesday ill be out until late

JR: i am hopeful that it'll go smoothly

JR: ah?

DS: theres a "meet the examiner" meeting in York at 730pm

JR: what does the examiner examine?

DS: and its 30 mins away  IAM



DS: the things im learning  sooner or later they test you



DS: and you get the Intitute of Advanced Motorists test cert  useful for insurance companies



JR: ah cool :)

JR: so you get a few exams along the way?

DS: apparently you can do a masters too  its continual assesment



DS: and when you are ready they say do the test

JR: ah

DS: but you have to do stuff to a good sdtandard  so i will have to improve my braking



DS: i brake to early  so i need to stop at yeild lines more exactly



JR: maybe find an empty parking lot and practice a bunch

DS: yes  he told me a trick that helped



JR: close eyes and scream SCREEEEE?

DS: on the way back from the cattery i had to emerge from a blind sideroad  i managed that without halting



DS: since all was clear  but im on 3rd lesson



JR: yes. mosty a matter of thinking and practice

DS: they say its about 14 lessons average  yes



DS: planing

JR: but an assessment week after next?

DS: Information, Position, Speed, Gear, Acceleration  no



DS: just a meet and greet with an examiner  and the rest of the people doing the course



JR: ah i see

DS: so we can see hes human

DS: :)  so i may not get back in time



DS: ill probably stay out for less stress timewise

JR: ok. remind us that monday :)

DS: ill have to drive back around york bypass  i will



DS: so was pleasing that the free street charging worked ok  and the car took charge at a rate of 7kw



DS: must be for people visiting pock

JR: yes that's good

DS: park up and go shopping  get charge to go home



DS: was cahrging at about 30 miles per hour

JR: yes

DS: was just thinking, i bet that clock behind us would look great in PBR

JR: probably would, yes

JR: a lot of stuff would

DS: the thin i also did today was to use that hue and saturation node to set a colour rathe than using a texture NS made which had 3 lights  for the world



DS: since PBR now calculates all the shadows and reflections

JR: what would have happened without that background light?

DS: i just wanted illumination from all angles  the texture would be black



JR: k

DS: if you added a light source that would be baked in  like a spot lamp



DS: i did that on shallots bed  i knew where the bedside lamps were



DS: so i maked in the shadows  baked



DS: we dont need to do that in PBR

JR: ok

JR: so i am supposing one just used PBR from here on out?

DS: i think so  but as you saw its same two files



JR: although i guess legacy people see grey or something?

DS: use old way or new

JR: but the object has to be one or the other?

DS: yes  yes legacy sees grey



DS: like you did

JR: well * 'em

DS: yes

JR: i should log, i guess

DS: This stereo record cannot be played on old tin boxes no matter what thay are fitted with. If you are in possession of such equipment please hand it into the nearest police station.