---
date: "2024-06-28-0720"
title: Bump Nodes
---

DS: are we doing any stuff up in S1 tonight?
JR: idk
NS: we could  do a little  Bump mapp understanding

DS: ok
NS: If janet is  up  to it
DS: just an hour?
JR: ok
NS: Yes
DS: ok
DS: at the lakeside maybe?
NS: Ok that  should be  ok
JR: ok
DS: yes
NS: So i  think we  been tough  how  to add a  buimp map  to a texture
DS: so you are noticing things ar much nicer colours now janet?
NS: and last time we saw how  one canmake a texture
JR: yes and i do get m inimal reflections
JR: ok listening to night
DS: yes
NS: and  draw on that to make a  bumps
JR: yes
DS: yes
NS: So that is  en  way but  it is  of course also to  use an external bump map
NS: like we did with the  Ai generated gray  pictures
JR: yes
DS: yes
NS: load a  gray  map  file
NS: and then include that
NS: IN order to use that  - the  external  option
NS: one  need to know where to draw
JR: right
NS: and in order to get that information
NS: the UV mapping  can be exported as a  file
NS: and one can use PS to  guide how  to draw the  bump map
NS: So today we try  to make that
JR: hm ok
NS: and then  bake the  new normal map
NS: So we  can start  as always  with a  cube
JR: yes
NS: and then  we like to have a texture
NS: Old Brass
NS: will be  good  if we search that
JR: please mention what layout you're in
NS: that will be  shading
DS: shall we start from a cube again?
DS: ok
NS: yes  start with a  cube  always  good
NS: then  find
NS: old brass texture
NS: and add to the  cube
JR: yes
NS: the  next thing is  to  unwrap the  cube
NS: so we have a  nice UV  system
NS: and there is  of c ouse many  ways
NS: bu  basically one goes to the  UV editor mode
NS: "UV Editing
NS: and then maybe apply a  few seams
NS: and  do a unwrap
NS: or  one can  jsut  let  it  do by  it  self
JR: i did UV Unwrap and nothing happened on the picture
NS: https://gyazo.com/b11997c6ccee94380b487332e7d25881
NS: you  select the  cube
NS: go in  edit mode
NS: select all
NS: press U for  unwrap
NS: and you should see the  unwrapped lines on the picture frame
NS: is all  the  cube is  selected
NS: in edit mode
NS: all borders
JR: made a very weird decision, two squares and a rectangle
DS: same here
NS: yes it is   the  tupical UV
DS: mark those seams ?
NS: make some  wierd choices
NS: thay  is  why  i always  operate with seams
NS: i  decide the  unwrap
JR: two of them are on top of each other in fact
DS: yes
NS: so  should  be  ok ?
NS: for  now  ti is  nto a  talk about  unvrapping
NS: ita  chapter on its  own
DS: shall we mark the seams like you did here https://gyazo.com/b11997c6ccee94380b487332e7d25881
NS: yes then you shoudl  get the  same
NS: https://gyazo.com/1f7788758a500036b264a98f59f42b54
NS: So if we have an  unwrapped cube
DS: ok got the inverted cross
NS: yes
NS: dosent matter  Dizzi
NS: we just need some  unwrap
DS: yes
NS: Ok next it  to actually  get that map
NS: to become a  file we can work  on
JR: ok i finally got something i can live with
NS: and fortunately  in the main meny  in the  image  display  under UV
Eye of Odin HUD to wear: + Kaðlín Björnsdottir (pyw Hoof)  [4]
NS: there si an  option to export  UV layout
Eye of Odin HUD to wear: - Kaðlín Björnsdottir (pyw Hoof)  [3]
NS: so with all the  borders of the  cube s elected
NS: on can go  to the  image  panel
NS: select UV/Export UV Layout
JR: yes exported cube.png
NS: yes
NS: and that  picture has the  black line  of the  UV layout
NS: gray is  the objet  faces and tranparent is  no  part of the  uv
NS: So one can open that in PS
NS: and then paint on a  new layer
NS: the  Bump map  one like to  have
JR: when exporting that map will we export only the layer we drew on, or both?
JR: (trying to figure out how best to draw given no PS here)
DS: mm
NS: Yes i see janet
DS: you need a drawing package with layers
DS: Krita?
NS: One  need some  way to  have a layerd image
JR: yes i can do that, i'm looking ahead to see how to set it up. anyway proceeding
DS: ok
NS: Yes i  think
NS: the  thing  one  do then is  to find the  right place to add thing
NS: it  can be a  big problem
NS: like the  cube  we have
NS: what is  up and  down
NS: and how  to  orientate  you self in the  image
NS: So often i  use  two  images
NS: one where  i mark  elements with the  textures draw
NS: and then export  that
NS: and then export the  UV
DS: i used to paint on the surface like we used last and write 1 2 3 ...6 on the sides
NS: and then  make the  real bumpmap  on a  3rd layer
DS: and esport that
NS: Yes
NS: Other  tome it is  obvious
NS: you have a  side fo a  houese with  windows
JR: yes. remind me what colors to use?
NS: not  hard to  figure out  what is  what
NS: If you like to make a bump map
NS: it is  onely  takign  black  and  white  info
JR: not gray?
NS: Yes  gray scaled
JR: should one fill with a neutral gray or just draw?
JR: white is up, black is down?
NS: yes
DS: i start with a 128,128,128 fill?
NS: yes
NS: and then  when you are happy
NS: you can insert that picture as a bump map
NS: just before then  normal input to the  Principal shader
NS: like we saw  before
JR: hm now of course i can't see the lines
NS: you have to select the  object
NS: all lines in  edit mode
DS: i usualy put the UV out as the top layer
NS: while  in the  UV  editor
JR: yes just figured that out :)
NS: Yes i  do  too - since it is  transparent
JR: i am still working out how to draw on the thing
DS: we could try and make a dice?
DS: draw black dots?
NS: Yes
NS: sould  eb  a  good try
NS: so i made this  in PS
NS: https://gyazo.com/7a85dad1d23e4518cbf4bf70fb9bf528
NS: uv layer on top
NS: and some  doth
NS: shoudl be  black  really  lol
NS: it is  holes
DS: white dots?
NS: yes
DS: ok
NS: lol
NS: need to be  black
DS: black
JR: ok what should i export, just the layer i drew on?
DS: yess
NS: yes  just the layer
NS: else the lines  will be part of the  bumps
NS: then  when we have that file
NS: we can import to Blender
NS: Using the  Image/Open
NS: S  i got  somethign liek this
NS: https://gyazo.com/3bb69685f5580fbcabb26b7cc9f0df9c
NS: the lines are because i have tthe  mesh selected in the  UV  editor  not  apart fo the picture
JR: i messed up starting over
NS: Ok  Janet
DS: yes takes a while
DS: i messed up too
DS: i hate PS
DS: :)
NS: Smiles
DS: bye the way night the dice is weird, oposite sides have to had to 7
DS: add
NS: yes it  uv map  is   somhow  ramdom
DS: https://gyazo.com/927444473f8cd52e5926c4f4679692af
NS: Look ok  Dizzi
DS: yes
NS: So  if  you have the picture into  Blender
NS: let me know
JR: sorry for sloth trying to get pic back to pc
DS: ok
DS: np
NS: smiles
NS: np
JR: ok, sorry someone at door
NS: Smiels
DS: :)
JR: ok i have pic on desktop ready to go, sorry i'm so slow, had to figure out how to move back and forth to ipad
NS: Dizzi  you can  try to set  up the  bump map
DS: yes
NS: no problem  janet
JR: now go back to shader?
NS: Now  import to blender
DS: ill just keep up with janet
NS: then go to the  shader
NS: Ok
NS: and we  go  into the  node  window  inthe  shader
DS: yes
JR: how do i import it?
NS: in image menu
NS: there is a  open  picture
NS: or  you can drag it  in
NS: or  use the  texture node
NS: in the  image  display   you   fing a meny  called image
JR: ah found it
JR: ok it is in
DS: in the hambuger
NS: o  next is  to add the  bump  mapping
NS: yes inthe  hamburger
NS: You  remember we  add a bump map node and an image  node
NS: and the s etup  si like  this
NS: https://gyazo.com/a09a09619789f1fa220a0908258731ca
NS: you can drag the  other nodes aside
NS: to make  room for the   two
NS: so 1)  Bumpmap  just before the  normal  input to the  principal shader
JR: too fast
NS: getting the  roginal normal input
DS: i cant see the text in your screengrab night
NS: if you click to enlarge ?
DS: yes even then
NS: ok i make a detail
NS: https://gyazo.com/f5bc22ac3545f40868ab968f5a7b47ef
DS: thanks
NS: the normal  input to the texture is  of course the  UV  map
NS: the  mapping input
JR: is the cube map thing an image node?
NS: yes the  texture  you made Jananet is  the  Immage  you need to  have in the  image  node
NS: so you can select  from the  node the  image  to  use
NS: https://gyazo.com/4f7dd61179604eac0e530ba14e3e8677
DS: woot
NS: i ahave more textures  looking for a  good  texture
JR: also woot
NS: In the  Image node
DS: https://gyazo.com/65a0fbb10607e9298cfcf32ef49f74d7
NS: there is a  field
NS: to select the  texture
NS: open that and then you can select the  image  you  like
NS: the little  icon
NS: of a mountain and a  sun
JR: yes got that. pic on screen is good
NS: inthat line  one have  also  option to  open a  image
DS: :)
NS: so  if  the  image is  in
NS: and the node is  connected
NS: you  should  see the  bumps
JR: yes i see the bumps. woot = i see the bumps :)
NS: SMiles
NS: All see  bumps
NS: my look liek  this
JR: yes
NS: https://gyazo.com/20a687f8b92fe437d5c320127055db92
DS: https://gyazo.com/57325d5d6c32ac11f3195f0891f148d7
NS: very  simmilar
JR: https://gyazo.com/ee821384cd4a75bb8f3ecad4376afd76
NS: and  nice artistic  Janet
DS: :)
JR: i personally hand-crafted that. LOL
NS: Ok  the last thign for  today
NS: Yes lol
JR: is getting it out, i hope
NS: we jhave to  controll the Bump Node
NS: We have a several option in that
NS: to change  what we  do
NS: The first element is the DIstance
NS: I  told you last time not to play  with  that
NS: But was to amke  things  simpler
NS: Image you liek to make  bumps
NS: and you have some idear of the  hight  or dept of  them
NS: then the value shoudl be set to the max value  you  like
NS: here maybe  10 cm
NS: so the  Distance shoudl be like  0.1
NS: and i f you notice
NS: the bump are mich  less jerky
NS: So  one  tune  the  distance
NS: into a setting where the  bumps  hight  is  about  the  expected visually
NS: I may  go to  0.2
NS: and will ebhappy  in my  model
JR: doesn't make much difference tho?
NS: the  strength  can then  be  use t  determine  the  influence
NS: No but  what it  does  janet
NS: is  to smooth  the  side of  you  bumps a bit
JR: ah
NS: then other thign to use is of course the  strength
NS: so  those  values are nearly always  adjusted
NS: ontill one  is pleased wit the  result
NS: and it  dosent affect the  other normal map
NS: since it is  just added on  top
JR: yes
NS: You can alse see that the bumps  Dizzi and  i have
NS: are a bit like  pyramids
NS: that of couse depend on the  fall of  of the  brush one  use
NS: how the  gray is converted into hight
JR: yes i couldn't find a brush that wasn't solid but i have them somewhere
NS: yes
JR: do we have time for a quick reminder of how to get this onto an SL object?
JR: getting kind of late
NS: yes
NS: But  it  think we a re here
DS: save blend?
NS: If  you  fisrst can see the  effet of the bump map  on your  model  it is  super easy to make a new Normal map
NS: Yes we can save
NS: So we  have all the  tools to add a  bumpmap
NS: what ever in most convinient for the  situation
NS: I  used PS and Blender to do  it
NS: and i  think i get more and more  fond of  using the  Draw on the  object directly  option for line and  doth
NS: and for  figures i am using  PS
JR: yes ... if i can get it to display on my iPad i would like that as well
NS: Yes
DS: loki sitting on me
NS: Smiles
DS: :
NS: Nice with  company  Dizzi
JR: how do we get this combined map out to make it available to SL?
NS: Then you have  to bake the  Normal map
DS: export the cube
DS: as you created a UV for it
DS: yes then bake normals
NS: Yes maybe  we should  do the  baking  after the  weekend
DS: yes
NS: because it is  a bit  confusing too
JR: yes or dizzi might help  me tomorrow
NS: Yes
DS: ok
DS: yes
NS: She know how  to  do
JR: anyway time for me to log
Dizzis and Nights Blessing 2.0 (dizzi): Dizzi would like give you a hug. Click [Yes] to accept.
DS: yes
JR: :) thank you, i now know a bit more
NS: So janet  have a nice  weekend
Dizzi: /me gives Janet a big hug.
VISTA ANIMATIONS *HUD 3.6*  DANGEROUS GIRL v3: NightShade would like give you a kiss. Say [Yes] to accept.
DS: the results look excellent
JR: you too, night, see u monday
NS: Yes i  will be here
JR: safe paths
DS: see you tomorrow
JR: yes
[